Release notes v5.2.0-preview4 (#2263)
dotnet/SqlClient: CHANGELOG.md

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/)

## [Preview Release 5.2.0-preview4.x] - 2023-12-07

### Added

> - Added `SqlBatch` support on .NET 6+[#1825](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1825), [#2223](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2223)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added `SqlBatch` support on .NET 6+ [#1825](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1825), [#2223](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2223)
```

> - Added Workload Identity authentication support [#2159](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2159)

Reviewer 2: I believe #2264 should be mentioned here as well.

- Added Localization support on .NET [#2210](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2110)
- Added support for Georgian collation [#2194](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2194)
- Added support for Big Endian systems [#2170](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2170)

### Changed

> - Updated `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI` (.NET Framework dependency) and `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI.runtime` (.NET/.NET Standard dependency) version to `v5.2.0-preview1.23340.1`. [#2257](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2257)

Reviewer 2: A brief summary of the internal SNI changes should be mentioned some where.

> - Updated `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI` (.NET Framework dependency) and `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI.runtime` (.NET/.NET Standard dependency) version to `v5.2.0-preview1.23340.1`. [#2257](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2257), which includes removing dead code and addressing TSA warnings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Updated `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI` (.NET Framework dependency) and `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI.runtime` (.NET/.NET Standard dependency) version to `v5.2.0-preview1.23340.1`. [#2257](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2257), which includes removing dead code and addressing static analysis warnings
```

- Improved CPU usage when `AppContext` switches are in use [#2227](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2227)
- Upgraded `Azure.Identity` dependency version to [1.10.3](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity/1.10.3) to address [CVE-2023-36414](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-5mfx-4wcx-rv27), [#2188](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2188)
- Improved error messages when validating server certificates in managed SNI (Linux/macOS) [#2060](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2060)

### Fixed

- Fixed an issue when using the Authentication option, but not encrypting on .NET Framework where the server certificate was being incorrectly validated [#2224](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2224)
- Fixed a deadlock problem for distributed transactions when on .NET [#2161](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2161)
- Fixed an issue with connecting to named instances on named pipes in managed SNI (Linux/macOS)[#2142](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2142)

> - Fixed an issue when connecting to an invalid LocalDB name using managed SNI [#2129](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2129)

Reviewer 2: I'd rather using clear voice and not using "a/an" article after the "Fixed".
```suggestion
- Fixed LocalDb connection issue with an invalid source using managed SNI [#2129](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2129)
```

> - Fixed LocalDb connection issue with an invalid source using managed SNI [#2129](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2129)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed LocalDb connection issue with an invalid source when using managed SNI [#2129](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2129)
```

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/)

## [Preview Release 5.2.0-preview4.x] - 2023-12-07

### Added

> - Added `SQLBatch` public API supprot to NetCore [#1825](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1825), [#2223](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2223)
> - Added WorkLoad Identity support [#2159](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1825)
> - Added Localization support to NetCore [#2210](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2110)
> - Added caching support for all `AppContext` switches [#227](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2227)
> - Added support for Georgian collation [#2194](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2194)
> - Added support for Big Endian Systems [#2170](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2170)
> 
> 
> ### Changed
> 
> - Updated `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI` (.NET Framework dependency) and `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI.runtime` (.NET Core/Standard dependency) version to `v5.2.0-preview1.23340.1`. [#2257](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2257)
> - Improved CPU usage when `AppContext` switched are in use [#2227](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2227)
> - Upgraded `Azure.Identity` version to [1.10.3](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity/1.10.3) to address [ CVE-2023-36414](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-5mfx-4wcx-rv27), [#2188](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2188)
> - Improved error messages on RemoteCertificate validation in manaded SNI [#2060](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2060)
> 
> 
> ### Fixed
> 
> - Fixed the issue with `AppContext` switches CPU useage [#2227](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2227)
> - Fixed the issue for validating server certificate when using Authentication option, but not encrypting on NetFX [#2224](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2224)
> - Ported  deadlock problem for `Transaction` to NetFX [#2161](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2161)
> - Fixed the issue for SQL named instances on named pipes in manged SNI [#2141](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2142)
> - Fixed the issue for `LocalDb` in managed SNI [#2129](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2129)
> - Fixed `AccessViolationException` issue when using express user instance [#2101](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2101)
> - Fixed UDT query issue on Azure SQL Edge [#2099](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2099)
> - Fixed NetCore and Net Standard file version [#2093](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2093)
> - Fixed the issue on Linux SPN port number when using named instance and Kerberos authention [#2240](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2240)
> - Various code improvements [#2091](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2091), [#2098](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2098), [#2121](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2121), [#2122](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2122), [#2132](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2132), [#2136](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2136), [#2144](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2144), [#2147](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2147), [#2157](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2157), [#2164](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2164), [#2166](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2166), [#2168](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2168), [#2186](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2186),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added `SqlBatch` support on .NET 6+[#1825](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/1825), [#2223](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2223)
- Added Workload Identity authentication support [#2159](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2159)
- Added Localization support on .NET [#2210](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2110)
- Added support for Georgian collation [#2194](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2194)
- Added support for Big Endian systems [#2170](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2170)

### Changed

- Updated `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI` (.NET Framework dependency) and `Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SNI.runtime` (.NET/.NET Standard dependency) version to `v5.2.0-preview1.23340.1`. [#2257](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2257)
- Improved CPU usage when `AppContext` switches are in use [#2227](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2227)
- Upgraded `Azure.Identity` dependency version to [1.10.3](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity/1.10.3) to address [CVE-2023-36414](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-5mfx-4wcx-rv27), [#2188](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2188)
- Improved error messages when validating server certificates in managed SNI (Linux/macOS) [#2060](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2060)

### Fixed

- Fixed an issue when using the Authentication option, but not encrypting on .NET Framework where the server certificate was being incorrectly validated [#2224](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2224)
- Fixed a deadlock problem for distributed transactions when on .NET [#2161](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2161)
- Fixed an issue with connecting to named instances on named pipes in managed SNI (Linux/macOS)[#2142](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2142)
- Fixed an issue when connecting to an invalid LocalDB name using managed SNI [#2129](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2129)
- Fixed an `AccessViolationException` when using a SQL Express user instance [#2101](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2101)
- Fixed a metadata query issue when connecting to Azure SQL Edge [#2099](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2099)
- Fixed file version information for .NET and .NET Standard binaries[#2093](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2093)
- Fixed the SPN sent for a named instance when using Kerberos authentication on Linux/macOS [#2240](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2240)
- Various code improvements [#2091](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2091), [#2098](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2098), [#2121](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2121), [#2122](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2122), [#2132](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2132), [#2136](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2136), [#2144](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2144), [#2147](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2147), [#2157](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2157), [#2164](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2164), [#2166](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2166), [#2168](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2168), [#2186](https://github.com/dotnet/SqlClient/pull/2186)
```
